
= In and Out Analyses =

This is a set of analyses intended to help explore a given trace. General compute and configurability is prioritized over performance.

This is a simple way to programmatically fill a callstack/flamegraph. Define scope entries and exits, as well as a unique scope identifier. By default, events with names ending in _entry, _exit and a CPU aspect are used.

To configure In and Outs, right click on the analysis and click on "Configure".

There will be a box with configuration options. Each entry except for the first and last expect regular expressions as inputs. These regular expressions are applied on the event name, content and a given aspect defined by the bottom box. Every in must match a given out. For example, if an event has a PID 42, it will only match another PID 42 if filtered on it.

Should a regular expression bet set to "all" (case-insensitive), then it is treated as being empty. Context entries are treated as optional, in the case of at least ContextIn being left as empty.

To name the states, the "label" field needs to be set to a value. If the value is {0}, it will take the first capture group from the first textbox field below. If the value is {1} it will take the first capture group of the second textbox and so on. By default, the label is set to "latency".

Clicking OK saves the configuration and closes the trace. The trace gets re-opened after.

Interesting use cases:
1- make a callstack on TID then switch it to see it per CPU.
2- Make a "call stack" on non-nesting latencies, e.g. irq start/end. This can be used to calculate total times and statistics on a given data. This can include total thread execution time.
